The Joe Rogan.
Experience. Competition doesn't mean being mean.
It doesn't mean people they're associating it and equating it with either
violence or aggression or, uh,
toxic masculinity.
There's all these words that kept throwing around for people feeling bad because
they lost.
But that feeling of feeling bad because you lost something is extremely valuable
in your life. And I don't want to say it hardened you because it doesn't hard.
You emotionally, you still are the same amount of emotional availability,
but you get, if you're accustomed to it. And I always tell people,
young men get involved in martial arts, especially jujitsu,
because you can do it and you're not going to get brain damage.
You get strangled a bunch,
you get your kicked all the time and it teaches you humiliating.
It teaches you humility. And then you learn after that, that you can get better.
And then eventually you become the hammer instead of being the nail. And that's,
that's something you can actually apply to your real life.
You can understand that these lessons of failure and humility and
humiliation and just getting pummeled, like all that stuff pays off.
Ultimately, if you just keep showing up and that's analogous to life in life,
if you can just keep showing up and keep working hard,
you're going to have setbacks. You can,
but don't let them define you and you can move forward. But if you don't,
if you just like the world is toxic and we need to Nerf everything and,
you know, everyone needs a safe space while we're,
we're just going to make a whole island full of.
And we're in danger of doing that.
We're definitely in danger of doing it.
If it hasn't already happened in many ways. And like,
what you're saying is intuitively true, that hardship creates a stronger mind,
right? It's not just intuitively true. This is, this is in data. This is in,
this is in science as well. Um, and in, in a lot of psychological research,
you know, this is, uh, and, and we know it to be true. What it,
the reason I like,
I love the subject of psychology because it kind of tells us things that we
already Intuit to be true. And, uh, and it just makes sense. And,
and this is certainly one of those,
and there's a lot of studies that show people who have suffered deep trauma, um,
uh, ended up better for it,
as long as they're telling themselves the right stories. And so this,
I go into this a lot in my book, too.
You have to tell yourself the right story about that trauma. Uh,
you have to tell yourself that you are resilient and that you,
and that you are empowered to overcome it. That's,
that's a very important narrative that you have to tell yourself.
If you tell yourself it just happened to you and it's not fair,
and everybody's out to get you.
I wouldn't wish that psychological state on my worst enemies. I agree. Well,
maybe my worst enemy, but, but that's the point, right?
Like you would never wish that upon somebody you like, uh, and that's,
and that's, that's, that's an important truth.
I think we have to tell ourselves.
When you were in the military,
is this something that they taught you or is it something that you learn through
example?
Uh, yeah, I think learn through experience. So, you know,
the w the reason buds,
so buds is basic underwater demolition slash seal training. It is,
it is our six month trial by fire, um,
selection process that we go to become a sales, the very first thing you do.
And it's where you see all the infamous footage of GI Jane and hell week and all
that stuff. That's all, it's all first phase in buds.
And so I like how you brought up Gina Jane. Yeah, well, yeah, it is.
Yeah. It's probably the wrong example in hindsight, all the Navy seal,
because I can't think of any other movies that show buds, um,
now that you bring it up, actually lone survivor, the very first intro,
I think has some, but anyway, find it on YouTube. Uh,
most people know what I'm talking about, but, uh,
is DOJ is not a realistic movie.
It's one of the least realistic movies in every single aspect, uh,
about the seal teams. But the point is, is, is that there is a,
there's not just a hardening of the mind that occurs from hell week.
It's like a, it's a, it's an,
it's an increase in confidence in a pretty excessive way.
Like if I can push my limits this far, imagine what else I can do. And, uh,
in that, and then you, and you continue to push those limits. I mean,
just even after hell week, you do it, uh, when you're kind of what we would,
what I would describe as controlled, drowning, and, uh,
in second phase where we,
where we learn to be super calm under water under the worst conditions,
meaning you can't breathe and you're about to pass out. Uh,
and you're still going to go through procedures in a very specific way.
You have to learn that, that, that calming. And then,
and you've pushed another limit and you've pushed another limit.
So bet that by the time we do get to combat, uh,
we've already suffered so badly in training that the combat doesn't feel all
that bad. And,
and we're ready to get your eye blown out of your head. Like I did, uh,
you're ready for that. Do you understand it? And it's, it's not surprising.
You don't react as, you know, in an emotional way when it does happen, uh,
because you've allowed yourself to be hard. And,
and you've told yourself the right story about that.
What is a traumatic experience hell week can be really is I broke my leg the
first time through I had to do it again. So, uh,
just a stress fracture that turned into a fracture,
and it just snapped at us while we were running with the boats on our heads.
So we run with these two or 300 pound boats on our heads.
They're basically the kind of boats you use in, um, river rafting. And,
but we run everywhere with them. Um,
I'm estimates and maybe up to 200 miles and just how weak alone. So, uh,
it's, it's one of the reasons older, older guys, you know,
maybe 25 and older have a lot of heart, a hard time getting a hold of those 25
because your, your body just breaks. You know,
our early twenties are probably the prime time.
Your muscles are developed about that time. Uh,
your bone structure can still handle the immense amount of punishment that it's
taking. And, uh, you know, except for mine, we call it, we know,
and then we'd make fun of each other and say, oh,
nice week genes you have there. That's why you broke your leg broke in.
How much time did you need before you went back to do it again? Uh,
six months I was rolled three classes, which, uh, which bone left tibia.
Okay. Yeah. That's a big one. Yeah. Yeah. It, um, you know,
it was a daily.
I just wanted to break to. There's not a lot of blood flow there. Yeah.
It's amazing that you got back in there six months later.
A lot of times I know guy who broke his leg and he was,
he was up for a good solid couple of years.
Yeah. And, um, and it was a risk because we weren't sure, I, I,
the, frankly the command was getting impatient. They're like,
we're not going to let you heal anymore six months. Is it? So go for it. Um,
and, uh, you know, it, it, it, you know,
it's not like a compound fracture either. This is a crack in the bone.
So maybe in any case, it worked out just fine. But, uh,
it's a risky thing because I knew it broke. Right. I, I mean,
I felt that I rounded a corner and my adrenaline kind of took me through the
rest of that run. Then we sit down for lunch and I couldn't get back up from,
from that seat. Like it was, it was the adrenaline worn off.
There was something bad, badly wrong there. And, uh,
there's always this question that the instructors will ask, are you hurt?
Or are you injured? Because there's a difference. And if you're just hurt,
because everybody is hurt, if you're just hurt, then you're just quitting.
Right. If you're injured, okay. We might give you another chance. Is that.
Interesting? That's for the average person,
that's such an alien thought alien question, are you hurt? Or are you in there?
It is. But there's a difference. And there is a difference. Yeah.
Now, um,
do they have any courses where they explain to you how your mind
works and how to overcome questions and doubts that, that creep into your head,
or they just they're teaching you through fire.
Right. And we wouldn't want those courses, frankly. Um.
And you see all those, like online people,
which you got to do is you got to face your fears and understand who you are and
it say, it's going to be okay to that. Does that drive you crazy?
And it didn't drive me crazy. I don't mind that somebody is trying to do that.
I say that we wouldn't do it because, uh,
the point is the point is that you're already, that person,
you're a seal before you got there. Okay. We're just,
we're just making you prove it, but you are already that guy. Okay.
Because you never had a choice and a is another chapter of my book.
I call it no plan B. You go through this with no plan B.
If you ever thought for a second that maybe I can make it through buds.
Like maybe I'll make it through hell week. I hope I do.
You're not gonna make it right there. There's a choice there. You're, you're,
you're, you're telling yourself that you actually have.
A choice. I think that's with everything. Yeah.
It is with everything because I get it. This is plan. It's an extreme example,
but it's certainly applies to everything. If you,
it replied to my run for Congress. Like if I,
I didn't plan anything after the primary on March 6th, they just didn't.
Now you could argue that that was probably not a great idea.
Maybe we should have had some kind of backup plan. Well, it worked, but, but,
but mentally it was more of a mental state than it was like,
I don't have a backup plan.
I'm not saying don't have contingencies in your life. I'm just saying. And only,
you know, when you've actually decided to quit. Right.
Cause it's one thing to be like,
I have tried to be an artist for so long and I'm just not good at it.
And then you quit. Well, is it really quitting or is it just facing reality?
You're just not good at being an artist. You know that. So it's, it's different.
You have to distinguish between those two things. But you know, you know,
if you quit because you actually quit, you gave up on yourself and that's,
and um, nobody, nobody can really judge that for you. And I just,
I think that's an important lesson and that's how you make it through buds.
Cause you never had a choice.